Hi, and welcome back.
In this video we're lookin' at some database jargon
that you'll need to know.
Starting with, what is a cursor?
We're also going to look at, what is commit?
And finally, just a couple of words on how we're gonna
write SQL and then then we'll move on to the next video.
Cursors, all operations in SQLite are made by cursors,
and not by the connection object itself.
There's two reasons for that.
First reason is that if we have a single connection
we can only perform one operation at a time.
If we have many cursors we can use each cursor
to read some data and one to write some data.
Remember we are limited to one write operation at a time
but multiple cursors can be reading data at the same time.
The cursor also has a specific meaning
and there's a reason why it's called a cursor
and that is, when we read some data
let's say we have this table here
and we tell the cursor to fetch some data,
get some data out of the database.
The cursor starts there, at the very top,
right before our first row.
When we tell the cursor to move over to the next line
it will give us the first line
and the cursor will move to the second row.
Notice how this cursor is actually like pointing at a place,
that's why it's called a cursor
because cursors are used to point at things
and this cursor here is pointing
at it's current location down the table.
When we read the first row, it moves over to the second row.
Now, when we ask the cursor to read one row
it's going to read one row after the one it's at now.
So it's going to move over to row three
and it would give us row two.
And so forth.
And this is really the main reason why it's called a cursor,
because every time you ask for a new row
it's going to move down and you cannot go back up.
So the cursor just keeps pointing down
and moving down as you ask it for rows.
Okay, so we are gonna encounter some
interesting functionality to do with this way
of operating soon.
Next up, the commit.
Commit just means, save the result to the disc.
And that's because we keep a bunch of data in memory
until we commit.
For example, say we want to insert some data
into our database,
we tell SQLite to insert it,
it doesn't actually get inserted.
It gets saved in memory until we say, commit all of this.
That allows us, for example, if we try to insert some data,
and it turns out to be corrupted or something like that,
we can then roll back and not actually save anything
to the disc.
It also allows us to write multiple things together.
For example, we can delete a user and insert a new user
and then commit and that actually proceeds to removing
the data from the disc and inserting the new data.
Let's say for example, we want to create a new purchase
for a user and then we want to, as a result of that,
update their credit card.
But if one fails we don't want to do the other.
We can try to add the purchase and if that fails
we will roll back and not proceed with the credit card.
So this commit allows us to,
when we are on a state where we want
to save things to a disc,
actually save them and not before.
So it gives us a bit of freedom
and also it gives us extra speed.
Keeping a bunch of things in memory
and then writing them altogether
is faster than writing them one by one.
Just due to the limitations on how the hard drives work
where the data's getting stored.
Now going to writing SQL, I'm going to redirect you over
to the next video.
SQL is English-like so the queries
are going to be fairly readable
and we're gonna do things like selecting data,
inserting data and things like that.
But we're going to do that in the very next video.
So I'll see you there.